i'm veronica co-founder and ceo of
demodest
demo risk to everyone who doesn't know
what you're doing just so you have
context is a sales meeting platform that
many does three things so we assist reps
in the call with playbook's battle cards
in order to increase close rates we
automate workflows related to the
meeting so scheduling preparation
documentation and also help sales teams
get insights into what's actually
happening in calls to close the loop
i started demo ls four years ago and
i've been working together with lauren
for the past one and a half years
yeah and um great to be here thanks for
joining us i'm lauren wright um as
veronica said i've been
uh at demo desk about 18 months and
joined demo desk really because i had
spent actually the
past nine years before demo desk at
glassdoor starting there at the early
infancy of our monetization
and in the us and then moved to europe a
few years in to launch the european
business and
went through all sorts of
rocky parts of that journey and when i
met veronica and the the concept of
damnedest i was like wow
this was the tool i've been looking for
um all of those years so
just help scale up the business and and
build repeatable process
so i'm really happy to talk about that
rocky road and share a little bit of
that story today
yeah so for every startup
especially in the southwest typically
three stages of growth so the first one
obviously product market fit from zero
to one million ar so one million aor is
the kind of typical benchmark for
figuring out whether you have product
market or not i mean also a couple of
other signs but this is like that like
number one thing in b2b stars especially
then the second stage predictable
building a predictable sales process
hiring a sales team typically until 10
million are and then beyond that it's
more focused of course on building a
scalable repeatable sales org going into
multiple countries launching multiple
products launching basically new things
beyond the things that you just did in
the beginning
so we are at the moment at this baby
blue stage in the middle and
we basically passed a product market for
the stage early last year and are now
growing towards 10 million ar
and i'll be mostly speaking about the
the green stage for product market fit
whereas lauren will be focusing on the
baby blue the second phase
predictable
so the first question when you are a
startup that is just getting off the
ground is how do you actually get your
first 10 customers i mean especially for
us we b2b
we need to get our first 10 companies
that use our product and pay for it and
how we actually did that how almost
everyone else also that it is really
reaching out to our personal network in
the beginning so friends and family
trying to basically leverage anyone we
knew who also had a tech company had a
sas company knew someone who had a sas
company being really really annoying
asking for any introduction that we
could find and by doing that we were
actually able to get to the first 10
users so i'm saying users because back
then they were not really paying and so
it was in 2018
we were first launching the product and
really trying to get this in the hands
of companies in the hands of users
trying to make them use it and not stop
using it which as a first step also
quite of a success for us right so
that's like a major step people using
your product and like not stopping to
use it and then by the end of 2018 we
also said the product is now ripe enough
we also need to make money with it so in
order to build your business of course
you need to charge money for the use of
your product so what we did is
going to the users that we had and said
hey we need to charge you money for it
you can continue using it but you need
to pay and luckily most of them said
yeah it's fine and we pay and then we
had 10 past customers which for us was
the real really the first big milestone
when we had that end of 2018
we applied for y combinator so why
combinator is a startup accelerator in
u.s located in mountain view and you
have to go
to mountain view or at least back then
that was the case now it was all remote
but we had to move there in a house
living together 24 hours for three
months and that was actually quite a
challenge because starting a business
with another co-founder just the two of
us with a couple of students doesn't
mean that you need to acquire customers
only in the first place but you also
want to make sure they don't go away you
want to make sure they are happy you
need to support them but it was just us
who needed to do all of this so when we
moved to san francisco it was quite
challenging because
we had to stay awake uh during the night
basically because all our customer base
was in europe um so how did it look like
was uh i was going to bed leaving my
phone on and then every second night or
so it really happened that a customer
called has a question has an issue
needed us to fix anything the product
because of course it was breaking all
the time
and then i was really trying as hard as
possible to not let the other party
realize that i was asleep the second
before and if there was a real issue
with going out of my room knocking on my
co-founder's door he also woke up like
took his laptop onto his bed and fixed
the problem we went to sleep so that's
actually really how the first
phase looked like for us
and um once we were beyond 10 customers
the next thing that we needed to
understand
and also that of course every startup
needs to understand right is how to
acquire users and customers that you
don't know yet that did not hear about
you before you don't have a connection
to them they've never heard about you or
your brand which also is like a new
challenge so growing from ten to fifty
five zero customers was for us the goal
at that point in time
and uh we focused on that for the first
half of 2019 and we did a lot of scrubby
things we really try to do a lot of
things that don't scale just to get to
this 50 customer benchmark so just also
to name a few examples we were
scraping linkedin so i don't know if i
should tell it but i i just do it so we
basically set up a fake profile on
linkedin it was a fake sdr a female sdr
who was running on a bot and that bot
reached out to all our potential
customers so we built a bot that scrapes
linkedin for potentially interesting
profiles that fit our sap persona that
we're looking for and then ran aboard
with that person just called elena and
uh reached out to these people
automatically and then just scheduled
meetings and that brought us to the
first 25 customers
we also hacked product hunt so product
hunt is a is a platform where you can
launch a new product and the number one
goal really is to get number one product
of the day and that means you need to
get a lot of upwards and in order to get
there you need to have of course a lot
of people like clicking that upward
button so what we also did is to uh we
reached out to all potential product
hunt launches so companies who had a
successful product and launch asked them
what they did well did the same and also
again built a bot that reaches out to
all of our network on linkedin and
facebook ask them to sign up on product
hunt two weeks before the launch and
then when we launched also ask them
again to upload so basically the point i
wanted to make here is really do things
that don't scale just do whatever it
takes
to get you to the number of customers
that you need to have in order to be
sure that now it makes sense to hire a
sales team and hire like you one or two
first sales reps
which
also again like was the next challenge
so in 2019
we were looking for someone to join our
sales team
and i was also just recently talking to
one of my portfolio companies who was
also now hiring the first chess rep and
he was telling me yeah i think we should
hire someone from amazon or someone from
from outreach somewhere from like a big
sales org and
someone who really has a lot of
experience in selling i said well i
don't think so i think you need someone
who is really able to find their own
leads to really able to hustle is hungry
can live in an environment where there's
nothing there yet where there's no
established process who is really a
builder
wants to build things who wants to prove
things and that's also what what we did
so we found someone for our next one and
then really focused on results we
accepted that processor is super super
inefficient back then so uh definitely a
lot of the tasks that we did back then
we shouldn't do any more today but
whatever it was that brought us to the
results basically was right for us back
then
this chart i did not make this framework
but i love it so my sales advisor gave
it to me
and it's also like a common used
framework it basically explains that
during these three phases of growth
which is product market fit go to market
fit and then growth and mode which is
like the later stage that really like
all of these phases have the different
challenges and the different things that
are important in these different phases
so especially the first one right it's
really important to make sure that the
customers that you acquire it they are
happy they love using your product they
don't stop using your product and
they're successful with it everything
else belongs to the second phase only
the second phase it really makes sense
also to think about unit economics think
about sales quotas think about basically
customer acquisition cost and anything
else that helps you really build
something that's repeatable and scalable
great so
um your your founder has at this point
built a nice stable of customers and if
you're ahead of sales you come in as a
vp of sales whatever you're talking you
you really need to assess like what that
customer base looks like
because as veronica said she did
whatever it took um she was blocking
tackling and
got a large
subset of customers which is amazing and
actually outside of her friends and
family
so complete strangers
validated the fact that
the that demodest solves a large problem
so check check that um great but as you
look into that customer base you might
find uh
an interesting
set of animals
maybe there's some deviation between
the problem that you
set out to solve and
actually what you're solving for the
customers and maybe they're telling you
to do
more integrations and customize this and
customize that so you really have to
step back and say okay
where can i pattern match with within my
customer base and find out you know
where we have a really really good
product market fit and then lean into
that
so the first thing we did was segment
our customer base and create a sort of
leading indicator of success who are the
customers that were
going to renew with us and we're growing
with us
and
we created a customer health score
around a number of different parameters
and then as we were on looking to
acquire new customers we even took it a
step deeper and we
we created sort of a proprietary system
called print which basically stood for
you know what is their revenue motion
what integrations do they have and how
is that going to tell us who our next
customers
should be
and the reality is you
go and pitch to vcs and you tell them
you know this is a huge blue ocean we
have
so much tan this is a 90 100 billion
dollar problem but the reality is you
need to really come in and say okay who
are the customers that i can help today
and
it definitely is different from that big
vision um and it's easy to get very very
distracted especially if you have
inbound leads coming out you have those
hungry reps that you hired initially who
you are looking at oh this is a nice
shiny logo i'd like to bring it in and
you start to get really disorganized
very very quickly so we used that
proprietary scoring to actually identify
the customers that were our perfect
customers and then we went and kind of
brick by brick created a countless that
were look-alike accounts to those
customers so that really helped us
narrow in who are the next 100 200
customers that we need to be going after
today and
start to really create a very strong and
stable customer base so
that customer base is built around the
central problem that you're solving
and and then understanding what it takes
to get them in the door like what map
out the customer journey step by step
what does it take for that customer to
actually buy your product
um and you may need to define your your
icp again it may be different than what
you thought it initially was and by the
way if you're further along in the
journey than the rocky road
from founder to sales light and you
actually have recreated
a scalable process you're on the road a
repeatable process this this problem
kind of comes out again as you're trying
to go maybe international i certainly
had this happen um when i was launching
a team um in europe and had a repeatable
process in the u.s but suddenly our icp
was slightly different and i had to
redefine that as we went along
so there are certain i would say aha
moments along the journey
and
veronica already identified you know one
of them was when she said all right i
think it's time to hire that first sales
rep i actually have customers that have
bought from me that are not my friends
and family which is like a great thing
and i say aha moments but
make sure that this isn't like an
emotional gut feel thing it needs to be
validated by real
quantitative ideally
moments that happen and you have to
create sort of scalable gates for
yourself so that you don't get ahead of
yourself um so
really trying to discipline yourself of
like do we really have product market
fit do we really have
a predictable revenue process and
actually david kellogg was here
yesterday morning and went through sort
of a mini master class on how to
figure out repeatable process if you
didn't see it i recommend you watch that
recording so i won't go into tons of
detail but on this slide but what is
super important is that as you
start to hire that that first sales rep
and or that second sales rep that they
get to productivity or they're on their
way to productivity and then you layer
in the next reps you don't just hit the
gas and then hire five more reps because
it's very very difficult just because
one thing happened to get the next thing
um to happen as well
and then
once you have that first squad of people
um really seeing that they can actually
hit quota together so i think the magic
number is 80 percent of the team get to
80 percent to quota or higher which is
hard to do
um there are many many teams that are
fully scaled and not hitting 50 percent
quota so
it's very hard to do that magic number
and if you hit that magic number then
you know potentially it's time to hit
the gas
the other thing to look at is
thinking about you know okay you may
have predictable process
you may have figured out like what it
takes either by leads or by going
outbound to get a a customer through the
funnel and you can rinse and repeat that
but it may be predictably
inefficient and that's what you don't
want so you may be
running a business where your unit
revenue economics just don't make sense
and then you need to really figure out
okay what are the levers to growth
that'll get me there and maybe you have
a you know expensive
cac initially
but you have to figure out a plan to
reel that in
and not just say i'm going to reel it in
but actually map out a plan and and
progressively reel that in and then
layer in your reps over time
along the way you also
ideally have it all figured out and that
you are supporting those reps you
initially have your um
your things have changed or your raskin
matrix
messaging
very clear
for your initial customers
you also have the right pricing and
tools initial tool tool stack to support
your customers
when you get into repeatable process you
have the playbooks to actually support
reps so you can't just bring in reps and
have them drink from the fire hose they
have to be able to in fact i learned
that the hard way i had
hired a rep initiated just one rep um to
bring in and
someone who is very experienced and i
figured yeah he'd figure it out well he
didn't um and
he he was very lost and luckily he he
had the sort of
characteristics that veronica described
and was able to kind of manage through
that situation but you really want to
hire reps give them the sense of
autonomy that they need to to figure
things out but also the guard rails and
that comes with having playbooks
you also need to have solid unit
economics
figured out but the reality is
there's pressure
to to scale quickly
there's a plan that you probably
subscribe to
to scale quickly and you end up hiring
too many people too fast without a real
planned productivity
you also may see some aha moments along
the way and
decide that it's time to to scale up
when there's probably something
some piece of the puzzle missing whether
it's on the acquisition side or i've
heard stories i likely didn't
go through this um but heard stories of
acquisition side being very very strong
but things were going out of the um
out the other end very very quickly um
so make sure that your net revenue
retention is there as well
no playbooks lack of adherence
one in four reps fail that's the average
um so
your burn rate can get high
either very very quickly or
slowly just increase over time
and absolutely nothing
none of this works even if you have the
perfect playbooks and you have the
perfect tool stack
none of this works if you can't figure
out hiring in fact if you screw up
a lot of other things which you
inevitably will do we all do
if you don't hire the right people who
are utility players and missionaries the
people who yes care about compensation
and care about the things that sales
people care about but if you don't hire
the right people who are really in it to
to build something with you who are
doers
then
you're going to have people leaving the
organization because they don't have it
in their heart they don't care um so
you have to really figure out hiring and
um that is the piece of the puzzle of
how to survive
there are plenty of headwinds when it
comes to hiring you don't have an
employer brand uh the market uh
hopefully is getting better but it's
been very difficult um and
maybe amazing talent on paper like
veronica's example
um
having a glossy logo is not necessarily
the right person for your organization
at the right um at the right
when you're at the early stage so really
finding that our entrepreneurial person
and usually that comes through networks
and being able to you know tap into
people who will subscribe to
you know the culture that you're
building
so a possible veronica i mean for me uh
i think hiring underpins all of this
um but i'll pass it over to you of your
key takeaway since you've been on the
journey from the start
yeah yes just to summarize what we've
basically been telling you for the past
21 minutes so we got in time is like
four key takeaways in order to really
build a sales organization from scratch
so i mean we started from nothing also
in my case i'm a first time owner so in
the beginning for me was particularly
hard and number one is really there's no
other way than just hustling in the
beginning you need to ask you need to
figure things out yourself you can't
rely on someone else to solve things for
you to figure out who to acquire how to
acquire customers and also how to retain
them through something that you as a
founder
founding team need to figure out and
also then the first team members that
you hire also need to be hustled as well
other than that like it's super super
tough to really build a business from
scratch
and the talent who might be a right fit
for the first stage so for the very like
early stage of your business definitely
might not be the same fit for later
stage so we also had a lot of cases
where we hired people in the very early
days who were like amazing fit but once
we grew to a certain like revenue
threshold and they were just not a fit
for us anymore so either they like moved
into different positions or we just
parted ways because just like didn't fit
for the stage where we are and that's
also sometimes not easy and like also
sometimes painful to learn for a founder
especially because you always see your
startup as like a family but at some
point in time it needs to like grow into
business
and yeah nailing your icp and buyer
journey is like definitely number three
so we did some mistakes as well in the
early days so we tried to just acquire
like every customer that
wanted to pay for a product and didn't
necessarily
find out enough about them to really
understand is our product and fit for
them we just said hey you want a product
you want to pay for it great please take
it awesome we have a new customer and in
the early days that's fine and but like
later you just pay for it because they
turn and messes up with your numbers so
like latest by the point where you need
to focus on unit economics you really
need to stop doing that and we
definitely also had a few cases that has
happened
and yeah number four is definitely i
mean unit economics
before you really haven't had two reps
who are hitting quota
consistently like up to 80
before you haven't really gotten to a
point where you know what the quota
actually needs to be like how high does
the quarter needs to be it doesn't
really make sense to scale excessively
because it just makes the problem
bigger it just helps you it doesn't help
you really figure out what are your unit
economics that you need to optimize for
it just creates like a lot of clutter
and focuses you away from the actual
things that you should like need to
figure out at this stage
i don't know if i had forgotten anything
if you want to add anything here
yeah i mean the other thing um around
hiring is potentially
um
that
you also have to create
conditions for people to be successful
so create conditions for them to
to develop and grow within your
organization so you can hire all the
right people but they will leave if you
have not given them autonomy
to to grow and develop and that's why
they joined your organization
and it's really really hard because
everything matters every day matters
especially at the beginning every second
matters so the
the
uh it's easy to tr to want to try to
you know really micromanage people or
get on but create systems for them to
live within but give them autonomy to
to grow and i think that culture they
will help grow the culture they will
help build the company they are the
people on the front lines that are going
to tell you when things aren't working
when they are instead of those you know
more seasoned players that
maybe work at an established company who
really just want to kind of plug in get
the playbook and go the people that you
hire are so important on the sales reps
and your sdrs to tell you what's
happening in the market they are talking
to the largest volume of customers and
you really have to be able to listen to
them and also empower them to to be
their best so i think yes hire the right
people but you are also you know very
much responsible for creating conditions
for them to excel and grow and if you do
that right it'll be an amazing amazing
journey that will you know change lives
and
be memorable for everybody so it's um
it's a very important piece of the
puzzle girls i just hired my first vp of
sales i'm a founder so we had
founder uh based sales up until now so
this is the perfect lecture so my
question is
what is the biggest shift or the biggest
change that lauren brought to the
company
the biggest change you ever came across
in the company no what is the biggest
shift that you brought now when you came
into the role of vp if you can point out
what one thing that
really changed compared to when veronica
was doing it
what changed the most what's your
biggest impact
it's hard to understand i know
i think there's like background noises
but i think it's what's the biggest um
shift or what's the biggest change that
impact that we've seen in this journey
um so far yeah
um
i mean for me i've only i've been at the
company 18 months and i say only because
it feels like of course you know startup
beers are like dinosaur year you know
your dog years sorry that they they you
know feels like a lot longer than that i
mean i'd say that the biggest shift um
you know
notwithstanding you know market
conditions obviously completely shifting
which is we're all going through um but
i think for me personally in my own
career i went from um a company that
where i was there for for nine years and
i had you know gone through various
stages of growth and so for me it was a
shift back from going
i had already had repeatable process and
i was kind of a startup within a startup
in europe and then i went to
join demo desk and just
you know really building again from the
start which is like my you know dna so i
love it i'm a problem solver i i like to
roll up my sleeves and get my hands
dirty but for me that was i would say
the the biggest change and it really had
to shift my mindset back to you know the
building phase and not the scale-up
phase and that um
and really
i think the icp in defining your icp is
very
very very difficult especially if you're
a category leader if you're trying to
like create this new category plant it
in the ground yes there's a lot of
overlap in sales tech but we don't have
any like very very direct competitors
that are
at least leading the market and so that
is
is hard to do because you really have to
lean into that mind shift of like things
have changed this is the way forward and
really convince people in sort of a
challenger way to to do that and that
makes finding your icp harder when you
don't have established competitors in
the market
[Music]
you